CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Amnix

**Amnix** welcomes contributions and corrections. Before contributing, please make sure you have read the guidelines
below. If you're a newcomer to open source and you haven't contributed to other projects or used
[Git](https://git-scm.com/) before, you should make yourself familiar before proceeding.

## Issues

The [issue tracker](https://github.com/vimux/amnix/issues) is the preferred channel for bug reports and features
requests, but please respect the following restrictions:

### General requirements

* Issue must be written in English.
* Please **do not** combine a few problems or feature requests in one issue. Create separate issues if needed.
* Please **do not** create an issue that contains only title. Write a clear title and useful description.
* Please **do not** use the issue tracker for personal support requests.
* Please **do not** post comments consisting solely of "+1" or emoji. The project maintainer reserve the right to delete
such comments. Use
[GitHub's reactions feature](https://github.com/blog/2119-add-reactions-to-pull-requests-issues-and-comments) instead.
* Search first before filing a new issue. Please check existing open or recently closed issues to make sure somebody
else hasn't already reported the issue.

### Reporting bugs

When creating a new bug issue make sure to include the following information:

* Your environment e.g. OS version, Hugo version, theme is up to date? Anything unusual about your environment or
deployment.
* Specify the exact steps to reproduce the bug in as many details as possible with code examples. Include links to files
or demo projects, or copy/pasteable snippets, which you use in those examples.
* Any message or error you get from Hugo, if you do.
* A screenshot of any visual bug.

**Note:** If you find a **Closed** issue that seems like it is the same bug that you're experiencing, open a new issue
and include a link to the original issue in the body of your new one.

### Proposing features**

* Explain the proposed feature, what it should do, why it is useful, and alternatives considered if possible. Please
note that the project maintainer may close this issue or ask you to create a Pull Request if this is not something that
the project maintainer sees as a sufficiently high priority.

Following these guidelines helps maintainer and the community understand your suggestion and find related suggestions.

## Pull Requests (PR)

**Please ask first** before embarking on any significant pull request (e.g. implementing features or refactoring code),
otherwise, you risk spending a lot of time working on something that the project maintainer might not want to merge into
the project.

Please respect our Pull Request Acceptance Criteria. For larger changes, you will likely receive multiple rounds of
comments and it may take some time to complete.

### Pull Request Acceptance Criteria

* Keep the change in a single PR as small as possible
* 1 PR = 1 FIX or FEATURE (do not combine things, send separate PR if needed)
  * PR with irrelevant changes won't be merged. If you do want to fix formatting or style, do that in a separate PR
* Use a clear and descriptive branch name (e.g. **NOT** "patch-1" or "update")
* Don't create a Pull Request from master branch
* Provide a reasonable PR title and description
  * PR must be written in English
  * If the PR changes the UI it should include before-and-after screenshots or a link to a video
* Keep PR up to date with upstream/master
* Pay attention to any automated CI failures reported in the Pull Request
* PR solves a common use case that several users will need in their real-life projects, not only your specific problems
* If you've added or modify SVG, ensure that each SVG file:
  * Be less than 2048 bytes
  * Be minified to a single line with no formatting
  * Not contain any JS or CSS section inside it
  * Not contain any additional transformations (matrix, translate, scale)
  * Сompatible with [MIT License](LICENSE)
* Maintain clean commit history and use meaningful commit messages. Pull Requests with messy commit history (with
commit messages like "update", "another update", etc) are difficult to review and won't be merged, even if the changes
are good enough
* Be prepared to answer questions and make code changes. The project maintainer expect you to be reasonably responsive
to those feedback, otherwise the PR will be closed after 2-4 weeks of inactivity

### Pull Request Contribution Prerequisites

* You have Node & npm installed
* You have Hugo installed at v0.48.0+
* You are familiar with Git

### Pull Request Process

1. Fork the repository
1. Clone down the repository to your local system
1. Run `npm i` in the repository root
1. Create a new *dedicated branch* with descriptive name from `master`
1. Make your change and commit to the new branch from the previous step
    1. Write a clear commit message
    1. If you've added code that need documentation, update the README.md
1. Make sure your code lints (`npm test`)
1. Push to your fork
1. Submit a Pull Request (PR) to the upstream

---

**⚠️ IMPORTANT: No guarantees can be made that your pull request will be accepted.**

## License

By contributing to Amnix, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Update CONTRIBUTING.md: add example template for bug reports

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Amnix

**Amnix** welcomes contributions and corrections. Before contributing, please make sure you have read the guidelines
below. If you're a newcomer to open source and you haven't contributed to other projects or used
[Git](https://git-scm.com/) before, you should make yourself familiar before proceeding.

## Issues

The [issue tracker](https://github.com/vimux/amnix/issues) is the preferred channel for bug reports and features
requests, but please respect the following restrictions:

### General requirements

* Issue must be written in English.
* Please **do not** combine a few problems or feature requests in one issue. Create separate issues if needed.
* Please **do not** create an issue that contains only title. Write a clear title and useful description.
* Please **do not** use the issue tracker for personal support requests.
* Please **do not** post comments consisting solely of "+1" or emoji. The project maintainer reserve the right to delete
such comments. Use
[GitHub's reactions feature](https://github.com/blog/2119-add-reactions-to-pull-requests-issues-and-comments) instead.
* Search first before filing a new issue. Please check existing open or recently closed issues to make sure somebody
else hasn't already reported the issue.

### Reporting bugs

When creating a new bug issue make sure to include the following information:

* Your environment e.g. OS version, Hugo version, theme is up to date? Anything unusual about your environment or
deployment.
* Specify the exact steps to reproduce the bug in as many details as possible with code examples. Include links to files
or demo projects, or copy/pasteable snippets, which you use in those examples.
* Any message or error you get from Hugo, if you do.
* A screenshot of any visual bug.

Please, take in consideration the next template to report your bug:

> **Hugo version**\
> _Run `hugo version` and paste output here._
>
> **Theme is up to date?**\
> _No | Yes_
>
> **Expected behavior**\
> _A short and expressive description of what behavior you're expecting._
>
> **Current behavior**\
> _A short sentence explaining what's actually happening, possibly containing screenshots._
>
> **Steps to reproduce / Code to reproduce**\
> _A step by step description of how to trigger this bug. / Provide link to a demo project which reproduces this bug._
>
> **Additional info**\
> _Anything unusual about your environment or deployment process? Anything else do we need to know? Optional._

**Note:** If you find a **Closed** issue that seems like it is the same bug that you're experiencing, open a new issue
and include a link to the original issue in the body of your new one.

### Proposing features**

* Explain the proposed feature, what it should do, why it is useful, and alternatives considered if possible. Please
note that the project maintainer may close this issue or ask you to create a Pull Request if this is not something that
the project maintainer sees as a sufficiently high priority.

Following these guidelines helps maintainer and the community understand your suggestion and find related suggestions.

## Pull Requests (PR)

**Please ask first** before embarking on any significant pull request (e.g. implementing features or refactoring code),
otherwise, you risk spending a lot of time working on something that the project maintainer might not want to merge into
the project.

Please respect our Pull Request Acceptance Criteria. For larger changes, you will likely receive multiple rounds of
comments and it may take some time to complete.

### Pull Request Acceptance Criteria

* Keep the change in a single PR as small as possible
* 1 PR = 1 FIX or FEATURE (do not combine things, send separate PR if needed)
  * PR with irrelevant changes won't be merged. If you do want to fix formatting or style, do that in a separate PR
* Use a clear and descriptive branch name (e.g. **NOT** "patch-1" or "update")
* Don't create a Pull Request from master branch
* Provide a reasonable PR title and description
  * PR must be written in English
  * If the PR changes the UI it should include before-and-after screenshots or a link to a video
* Keep PR up to date with upstream/master
* Pay attention to any automated CI failures reported in the Pull Request
* PR solves a common use case that several users will need in their real-life projects, not only your specific problems
* If you've added or modify SVG, ensure that each SVG file:
  * Be less than 2048 bytes
  * Be minified to a single line with no formatting
  * Not contain any JS or CSS section inside it
  * Not contain any additional transformations (matrix, translate, scale)
  * Сompatible with [MIT License](LICENSE)
* Maintain clean commit history and use meaningful commit messages. Pull Requests with messy commit history (with
commit messages like "update", "another update", etc) are difficult to review and won't be merged, even if the changes
are good enough
* Be prepared to answer questions and make code changes. The project maintainer expect you to be reasonably responsive
to those feedback, otherwise the PR will be closed after 2-4 weeks of inactivity

### Pull Request Contribution Prerequisites

* You have Node & npm installed
* You have Hugo installed at v0.48.0+
* You are familiar with Git

### Pull Request Process

1. Fork the repository
1. Clone down the repository to your local system
1. Run `npm i` in the repository root
1. Create a new *dedicated branch* with descriptive name from `master`
1. Make your change and commit to the new branch from the previous step
    1. Write a clear commit message
    1. If you've added code that need documentation, update the README.md
1. Make sure your code lints (`npm test`)
1. Push to your fork
1. Submit a Pull Request (PR) to the upstream

---

**⚠️ IMPORTANT: No guarantees can be made that your pull request will be accepted.**

## License

By contributing to Amnix, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under [MIT License](LICENSE).
